feat(data-warehouse): add join docs (#8567)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/data-warehouse/join.md

---

> title: Filtering, Visualizing, and Joining Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Filtering, visualizing, and joining data
```

sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
  free: full
  selfServe: full
  enterprise: full
---

> Your external data can be used alongside the rest of the PostHog system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your external data can be used alongside the rest of the PostHog.
```

### Visualizing

> Data synced to the data warehouse will be available for use in an insight just as events and actions are. You can select your data warehouse data as a category besides events and actions in the event dropdown when analyzing insights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data synced to the data warehouse is available for use in insights, just as events and actions are. You can select your data warehouse data as a series in the dropdown when creating an insight.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/data_light_a4b621d2dc.png" 
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/data_dark_bd8533060b.png"
    alt="Selecting data warehouse data" 
    classes="rounded"
/>

```

> The main difference from PostHog events to note is that you must identify 3 fields from the data warehouse data (id, distinct id, and timestamp) for the data to be graphable. It's infeasible for us to map and assume which fields represent the time and id from a given data source so we do a best guess prefill but allow you to edit it. ID should be a field that corresponds to the id of the element. Distinct id should correspond to an id that represents the user associated with the element (if none, can match Id). Timestamp field should be a timestamp field representing when the element was created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main difference from events is that you must identify 3 fields from the data warehouse data to visualize it:

 -  ID: A field that corresponds to the ID of the element. 
 - Distinct ID: A field that corresponds to an ID representing the user associated with the element. If none, can match ID.
 - Timestamp:  A timestamp field representing when the element was created
 
It's infeasible for us to map these fields, so we do pre-fill with a best guess, but allow you to edit it.
```

### Filtering

Once you've selected a data warehouse table to visualize, you can filter on the related data in the schema under the insight specific filter dropdown.

### Joining

> External data can be joined on existing PostHog schemas and other external data tables. These joins will be saved and interpreted anytime they're accessed on the origin table. For example, if you import your stripe data and get a table `stripe_customers` and define a join between `events` and `stripe_customers`, you will then be able to query `SELECT stripe_customers.id FROM events`. 

Reviewer: Where do you do this?
```suggestion
You can join external data on existing PostHog schemas and other external data tables. These joins are saved and interpreted anytime they're accessed on the origin table. For example, if you import your Stripe data and get a table `stripe_customers` and define a join between `events` and `stripe_customers`, you can then query `SELECT stripe_customers.id FROM events`. 
```

Author: Ahh good question, when you're viewing a table you'll see the "add join button"

<img width="1143" alt="Screenshot 2024-05-30 at 10 28 28 PM" src="https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/assets/13127476/de2ee727-8bb7-4020-80c9-7afe1c614f0a">

Author: @ivanagas Mind adding this to the image host too?

Reviewer: https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/stripe_join_4968f82ab8.png

Author: thank you! we'll want the light and dark too. Mind directing me towards docs/how we upload content for website? I can make these

Reviewer: https://posthog.com/handbook/engineering/posthog-com/assets :)
![CleanShot 2024-05-31 at 12 20 41](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/assets/34755028/05a9a302-61c1-4b66-a811-ed4f4750a7ea)

---
title: Filtering, visualizing, and joining data
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
  free: full
  selfServe: full
  enterprise: full
---

> Your external data can be used alongside the rest of the PostHog.

Reviewer: We should decide on a verb you want to use. 

- Link (used in other docs)
- Sync (used later in this doc)
- Connect (used by connectors)

Maybe link refers to initial connection and sync refers to ongoing connection, but that means we should remove "connect."

```suggestion
Once you [link a source](/docs/data-warehouse/setup), your external data can be used alongside the rest of the PostHog.
```

### Visualizing

Data synced to the data warehouse is available for use in insights, just as events and actions are. You can select your data warehouse data as a series in the dropdown when creating an insight.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/data_light_a4b621d2dc.png" 
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/data_dark_bd8533060b.png"
    alt="Selecting data warehouse data" 
    classes="rounded"
/>

The main difference from events is that you must identify 3 fields from the data warehouse data to visualize it:

>  -  ID: A field that corresponds to the ID of the element. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - ID: A field that corresponds to the ID of the element. 
```

 - Distinct ID: A field that corresponds to an ID representing the user associated with the element. If none, can match ID.

>  - Timestamp:  A timestamp field representing when the element was created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Timestamp: A timestamp field representing when the element was created.
```

> It's infeasible for us to map these fields, so we do pre-fill with a best guess, but allow you to edit it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's infeasible for us to map these fields. We pre-fill with a best guess, but allow you to edit it.
```

### Filtering

> Once you've selected a data warehouse table to visualize, you can filter on the related data in the schema under the insight specific filter dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you select a data warehouse table to visualize, you can filter on the related data in the schema under the insight specific filter dropdown.
```

### Joining

> You can join external data on existing PostHog schemas and other external data tables. These joins are saved and interpreted anytime they're accessed on the origin table. For example, if you import your Stripe data and get a table `stripe_customers` and define a join between `events` and `stripe_customers`, you can then query `SELECT stripe_customers.id FROM events`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can join external data on existing PostHog schemas and other external data tables. These joins are saved and interpreted anytime they're accessed on the origin table. For example, if you import your Stripe data, get a table `stripe_customers`, and define a join between `events` and `stripe_customers`, you can then query `SELECT stripe_customers.id FROM events`. 
```

To define a join, go to the data warehouse tab, select the origin table of the join, click "Add join", and define the join parameters.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Screenshot_2024_06_01_at_4_13_52_PM_c676e12a91.png" 
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Screenshot_2024_06_01_at_4_14_04_PM_74fd0ef4dc.png"
    alt="Create a join" 
    classes="rounded"
/>

#### Special Joins

> Joining data warehouse data against the PostHog `persons` schema enables the data to be used as person filters within the insight scene. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Joining data warehouse data against the PostHog `persons` schema enables the data to be used as person filters within an insight. 
```
